Add tutorial for setting up a simulation (#514)
trixi-framework/TrixiParticles.jl: docs/src/tutorials/tut_setup.md

# Setting up your simulation from scratch

In this tutorial, we will guide you through the general structure of simulation files.
We will set up a simulation similar to the example simulation
[`examples/fluid/hydrostatic_water_column_2d.jl`](https://github.com/trixi-framework/TrixiParticles.jl/blob/main/examples/fluid/hydrostatic_water_column_2d.jl),
which is one of our simplest example simulations.
In the second part of this tutorial, we will show how to replace components
of TrixiParticles.jl by custom implementations from within a simulation file,
without ever cloning the repository.

> For different setups and physics, have a look at [our other example files](@ref examples).

Reviewer: Maybe explain how we usually structure our example files. Resolution, experiment setup, ...

Reviewer 2: Yes I agree this doesn't belong here.

## Resolution

At the beginning of most simulation files, we define the numerical resolution,
so that it can easily be found and changed.
First, we import TrixiParticles.jl and
[OrdinaryDiffEq.jl](https://github.com/SciML/OrdinaryDiffEq.jl), which we will

> use at the very end for the time integration.

Reviewer: put this somewhere above the section `## Resolution`?

```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false
using TrixiParticles

> using OrdinaryDiffEq

Reviewer 2: This needs:
1) What does numerical resolution mean here?
2) What is the common name that we use?
3) What impact does that have?
4) Concrete values for the example that you are discussing.
...

# output

```
Now, we define the particle spacing, which is our numerical resolution.
We also set the number of boundary layers, which need to be sufficiently

> large, depending on the smoothing kernel and smoothing length, so that

Reviewer: link to the corresponding doc section

the compact support of the smoothing kernel is fully sampled with particles

> for a fluid particle close to a boundary.

Reviewer 2: This would be much more concrete if you would just write compact_support < boundary layers and give here the common values for the compact support or how one can find them.

```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false
fluid_particle_spacing = 0.05
boundary_layers = 3

# output
3
```

## Experiment setup

We want to simulate a water column resting under hydrostatic pressure inside
a rectangular tank.

> First, we define the physical parameters gravitational acceleration,
> initial fluid size, tank size, fluid density, and simulation time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we define the physical parameters gravitational acceleration, simulation time, initial fluid size, tank size and fluid density.
```

```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false
gravity = 9.81
tspan = (0.0, 1.0)
initial_fluid_size = (1.0, 0.9)
tank_size = (1.0, 1.0)
fluid_density = 1000.0

# output
1000.0

> ```

Reviewer 2: Add a drawing.

In order to have the initial particle mass and density correspond to the
hydrostatic pressure gradient, we need to define a state equation, which

> relates the fluid density to pressure.

Reviewer: link to docs?

in water would lead to prohibitively small time steps.
The speed of sound in Weakly Compressible SPH should be chosen as small as
possible for numerical efficiency, but large enough to limit density fluctuations
to about 1%.

TrixiParticles.jl requires the initial particle positions and quantities in
form of an [`InitialCondition`](@ref).
Instead of manually defining particle positions, you can work with our
pre-defined setups.
Among others, we provide setups for rectangular shapes, circles, and spheres.
Initial conditions can also be combined with common set operations.
See [this page](@ref initial_condition) for a list of pre-defined setups
and details on set operations on initial conditions.

Here, we use the [`RectangularTank`](@ref) setup, which generates a rectangular
fluid inside a rectangular tank, and supports a hydrostatic pressure gradient
by passing a gravitational acceleration and a state equation (see above).
```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false, filter = r"RectangularTank.*"
tank = RectangularTank(fluid_particle_spacing, initial_fluid_size, tank_size,
                       fluid_density, n_layers=boundary_layers,

>                        acceleration=(0.0, -gravity), state_equation=state_equation)

Reviewer: do we have plot recipes for IC? It would be cool to add here a line 
`plot(tank)` which plots the tank with the initial density.

Author: Well, it will be almost the same as the final plot, since it's a static simulation. We could also change this tutorial to use a dam break.

# output
RectangularTank{2, 4, Float64}(InitialCondition{Float64}(...))
```

## Fluid system

To model the water column, we use the Weakly Compressible Smoothed Particle

> Hydrodynamics (WCSPH) method.

Reviewer: link?

This method requires a smoothing kernel and a corresponding smoothing length,
which should be chosen in relation to the particle spacing.
```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false
smoothing_length = 1.2 * fluid_particle_spacing
smoothing_kernel = SchoenbergCubicSplineKernel{2}()

# output
SchoenbergCubicSplineKernel{2}()
```
You can find an overview over smoothing kernels and corresponding smoothing
lengths [here](@ref smoothing_kernel).

For stability, we need numerical dissipation in form of an artificial viscosity
term.
```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false
viscosity = ArtificialViscosityMonaghan(alpha=0.02, beta=0.0)

# output
ArtificialViscosityMonaghan{Float64}(0.02, 0.0, 0.01)
```

> We choose the parameters as small as possible to avoid visible viscosity,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We choose the parameters as small as possible to avoid non-physical behavior
```

> but as large as possible to stabilize the simulation.

Reviewer 2: This is formulated in a way that the only reason to use this type of viscosity is for stability reasons, which is not true it needs to be set according to the viscosity of the fluid to be simulated. It should also be mentioned here that `beta` is usually 0.0 in fluid simulations.

Author: Well, it is for stability. If we want physically correct viscosity, we use a physical viscosity model. If we want to simulate inviscid flow, we need artificial viscosity to stabilize the simulation, and we want as little as possible to remain inviscid.

Reviewer 2: Yes than please add this to you explanation.

The WCSPH method can either compute the particle density by a kernel summation
over all neighboring particles (see [`SummationDensity`](@ref)) or by making

> the particle density a variable in the ODE system and integrating it over time.

Reviewer: Maybe mention that the former case calculates the density directly where as the latter rather computes the change of the density over time?

We choose the latter approach here by using the density calculator

> [`ContinuityDensity`](@ref).

Reviewer 2: This should also shortly mention the pro/cons of these methods.

│ #particles: ………………………………………………… 360                                                              │
│ density calculator: …………………………… ContinuityDensity                                                │
│ correction method: ……………………………… Nothing                                                          │
│ state equation: ……………………………………… StateEquationCole                                                │
│ smoothing kernel: ………………………………… SchoenbergCubicSplineKernel                                      │
│ viscosity: …………………………………………………… ArtificialViscosityMonaghan{Float64}(0.02, 0.0, 0.01)            │
│ density diffusion: ……………………………… nothing                                                          │
│ acceleration: …………………………………………… [0.0, -9.81]                                                     │
│ source terms: …………………………………………… Nothing                                                          │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Boundary system

In order to define a boundary system, we first have to choose a boundary model,
which defines how the fluid interacts with boundary particles.

> We will use the [`BoundaryModelDummyParticles`](@ref) with

Reviewer: It might make sense to mention that the BC in SPH are modeled numerically with particles instead of having an analytical described surface

[`AdamiPressureExtrapolation`](@ref), which generally produces the best results

> of the implemented methods.

Reviewer 2: Since we don't know which methods will still be implemented this should be formulated more neutrally.

                                             state_equation=state_equation,
                                             AdamiPressureExtrapolation(),
                                             smoothing_kernel, smoothing_length)
boundary_system = BoundarySPHSystem(tank.boundary, boundary_model)

# output
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ BoundarySPHSystem{2}                                                                             │
│ ════════════════════                                                                             │
│ #particles: ………………………………………………… 276                                                              │
│ boundary model: ……………………………………… BoundaryModelDummyParticles(AdamiPressureExtrapolation, Nothing) │
│ movement function: ……………………………… nothing                                                          │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Semidiscretization

The key component of every simulation is the [`Semidiscretization`](@ref),
which couples all systems of the simulation.

> All methods in TrixiParticles.jl are semidiscretizations, which discretize

Reviewer 2: `All methods`? That is a bit too general.

Author: Are they not? Do we have anything that is not a semidiscretization? Will we ever have a method that uses a space-time discretization? I've only seen this with grid-based methods.

Reviewer 2: What you mean is "All simulation methods" or "All schemes"?

the equations in time to provide an ordinary differential equation that still
has to be solved in time.
By providing a simulation time span, we can call [`semidiscretize`](@ref),
which returns an `ODEProblem` that can be solved with a time integration method.
```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false, filter = r"ODEProblem with .*"s
semi = Semidiscretization(fluid_system, boundary_system)
ode = semidiscretize(semi, tspan)

# output
ODEProblem with uType RecursiveArrayTools.ArrayPartition...
```

## Time integration

We use the methods provided by
[OrdinaryDiffEq.jl](https://github.com/SciML/OrdinaryDiffEq.jl),
but note that other packages or custom implementations can also be used.

OrdinaryDiffEq.jl supports callbacks, which are executed during the simulation.
For this simulation, we use the [`InfoCallback`](@ref), which prints
information about the simulation setup at the beginning of the simulation,
information about the current simulation time and runtime during the simulation,
and a performance summary at the end of the simulation.
We also want to save the current solution in regular intervals in terms of

> simulation time as VTK, so that we can look at the solution in ParaView.

Reviewer: link to the visualization section

The [`SolutionSavingCallback`](@ref) provides this functionality.
To pass the callbacks to OrdinaryDiffEq.jl, we have to bundle them into a

> `CallbackSet`.

Reviewer: link `CallbackSet` to the corresponding doc page in SciML?

Author: Not sure if this is a good idea. These links might break and we have no way to detect that. So we will have broken links in the docs until someone creates an issue to notify us.

```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false, filter = r"CallbackSet.*"
info_callback = InfoCallback(interval=50)
saving_callback = SolutionSavingCallback(dt=0.02)

callbacks = CallbackSet(info_callback, saving_callback)

# output
CallbackSet{Tuple{}, ...}
```

Finally, we can start the simulation by solving the `ODEProblem`.

> We use the method `RDPK3SpFSAL35` of OrdinaryDiffEq.jl, which is a Runge-Kutta

Reviewer: links?

method with automatic (error based) time step size control.
This method is usually a good choice for prototyping, since we do not have to
worry about choosing a stable step size and can just run the simulation.
For better performance, it might be beneficial to tweak the tolerances
of this method or choose a different method that is more efficient for the
respective simulation.
You can find both approaches in our [example files](@ref examples).
Here, we just use the method with the default parameters, and only disable
`save_everystep` to avoid expensive saving of the solution in every time step.
```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false, filter = r".*"s
sol = solve(ode, RDPK3SpFSAL35(), save_everystep=false, callback=callbacks);

# output

```

See [Visualization](@ref) for how to visualize the solution.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add image here

struct MyGaussianKernel <: TrixiParticles.SmoothingKernel{2} end

# output

```
This kernel is going to be an implementation of the Gaussian kernel with
a cutoff for compact support.
Note that the same kernel in a more optimized version is already implemented
in TrixiParticles.jl as [`GaussianKernel`](@ref).

In order to use our new kernel, we have to define three functions.
`TrixiParticles.kernel`, which is the kernel function itself,
`TrixiParticles.kernel_deriv`, which is the derivative of the kernel function,
and `TrixiParticles.compact_support`, which defines the compact support of the
kernel in relation to the smoothing length.
The latter is relevant for determining the search radius of the neighborhood search.

```jldoctest tut_setup; output = false
function TrixiParticles.kernel(kernel::MyGaussianKernel, r, h)
    q = r / h

    if q < 2
        return 1 / (pi * h^2) * exp(-q^2)
    end

    return 0.0
end

function TrixiParticles.kernel_deriv(kernel::MyGaussianKernel, r, h)
    q = r * h

    if q < 2
        return 1 / (pi * h^2)  * (-2 * q) * exp(-q^2) / h
    end

    return 0.0
end

TrixiParticles.compact_support(::MyGaussianKernel, h) = 3 * h

# output

> 

Reviewer: maybe add something like `plot(my_kernel)` to visualize the Kernel in 1D (or more fancy in 2D)?
